<!-- vim:spell:spelllang=en:
Note that the article title is missing.
It is managed directly by DotClear2.
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Insert below a short introduction
=================================
-->

This example shows a sample message written with **ports4dotclear**.
It will present some features of the system.

Its source code can be viewed [below](#source).

<!-- :::::::::::::::::::::: EXCERPT SEPARATOR :::::::::::::::::::::: -->

Markdown syntax
===============

By default, ports4dotclear converts a markdown text file to a
well-formatted xHTML document. With [Markdown][0], one can easily write:

- an unordered list
- text in *italic*, either with the \* token _or_ with the \_ one.
- text with **strong** emphasis.
- text in teletype font, to mimic `source code`
- [hyperlinks][1] with either a reference-like notation or directly with
an [URL](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/URL)
- ordered lists:
	1. one
	2. two
	2. three

You can also generate code blocks:

	<div>
		<p>Code blocks are created simply by shifting text to the right.</p>
	</div>

… or quotation blocks by beginning a paragraph with a "`>`":

> Massa mus. Libero malesuada laoreet consectetuer integer. Odio. Etiam
donec. Ornare diam. Aptent porttitor. Donec. Metus magna laoreet nec,
rhoncus. Hac parturient at, amet. Aliquet. Blandit urna, adipiscing eni
justo vestibulum molestie ipsum vulputate senectus id platea ad id at.
Erat pharetra tristique id, magna. Pellentesque adipiscing pede
imperdiet lectus, enim erat lacus.

[0]: http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/
[1]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hyperlink

Hierarchic headers
------------------

### can also be used ###

#### and are automatically numbered ####

Inline HTML and additional text processing scripts
==================================================

<p style="width:16em; padding:1em 5em; text-align:center; float: right;">
	<object data="Media/SVG.svg" type="image/svg+xml">
		<p>can't read SVG ? go 
		<a href="www.getfirefox.com">www.getfirefox.com</a></p>
	</object>
	<br />
	(<a href="Media/SVG.svg">SVG source</a>)
</p>

But one of the strong advantage of markdown is that you can inline HTML
when needed. If you want to insert images or SVG diagrams, just use
whatever HTML tag you prefer.

Note that a script, `ResizeSVG.pl`, can post-process SVG diagrams to
correctly set their dimensions. So you don't have to bother yourself
tweaking the `<svg>` attributes `width`, `height` or `viewBox`.

Another text formatting script, `Externalize.pl`, can pre-process part
of xHTML code using external programs as, for example, highlight:

<pre extern="highlight -Xfl -S C" style="width: 28em; margin: 1em 5em;">
<![CDATA[
#include <stdlib.h>
#include <stdio.h>

int
main (int argc, char **argv) {
	printf ("Hello World !\n");
	return EXIT_SUCCESS;
}
]]>
</pre>

_Be aware that `<pre>` elements require sometimes a `<![CDATA[ ]]>` to
prevent their content from being mis-interpreted by XML SAX parsers._

Finally, the script `publish.pl` takes care of uploading every file in
the *Media/* directory to your remote server when invoking `make
CONFIG=myServer publish`.

A glimpse at this page source code
==================================

<pre id="source" extern="highlight -Xfl -S HTML text.mkd">
</pre>
